README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 🚀 GenForm - AI-Powered Form Builder

### Transform Ideas into Beautiful Forms in Seconds

[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/demo-live-green.svg)](https://genformai-kappa.vercel.app/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-15.1.4-black)](https://nextjs.org/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-blue)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

[Live Demo](https://genformai-kappa.vercel.app/) • [Report Bug](https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm/issues) • [Request Feature](https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm/issues)

</div>

---

## 🌟 Overview

**GenForm** is a cutting-edge SaaS platform that leverages AI to revolutionize form creation. Simply describe your form in plain English, and our AI instantly generates a fully functional, customizable form. No coding required, no complex setup—just intelligent form building at your fingertips.

### ✨ Why GenForm?

- ⚡ **Lightning Fast** - Create forms in seconds, not hours
- 🤖 **AI-Powered** - Intelligent field suggestions and form generation
- 🎨 **Beautiful Design** - Modern, responsive forms that work everywhere
- 📊 **Analytics Built-in** - Track submissions and gain insights
- 🔒 **Secure** - Enterprise-grade security with encrypted data
- 💰 **Flexible Pricing** - Free tier available, scale as you grow

---

## 🎯 Key Features

### 🤖 AI Form Generation
- **Natural Language Processing** - Describe your form in plain English
- **Smart Field Detection** - AI automatically suggests appropriate field types
- **Instant Creation** - Generate complete forms in under 5 seconds
- **Context Understanding** - AI understands your form's purpose and adapts accordingly

### ✏️ Rich Text Editing
- **WYSIWYG Editor** - Format form descriptions with bold, italic, underline
- **List Support** - Add ordered and unordered lists
- **Link Integration** - Include hyperlinks in descriptions
- **Google Forms-like Experience** - Familiar and intuitive interface

### 🎨 Form Customization
- **Inline Title Editing** - Edit form names directly from dashboard or edit page
- **Field Management** - Add, remove, reorder, and customize fields
- **Field Types** - Text, email, number, select, radio, checkbox, and more
- **Required/Optional** - Mark fields as required or optional
- **Placeholders** - Add helpful placeholder text for better UX

### 📊 Analytics Dashboard
- **Submission Tracking** - Monitor form responses in real-time
- **Visual Charts** - Beautiful graphs and statistics
- **Submission Details** - View individual responses with timestamps
- **Export Data** - Download submissions for further analysis
- **Form Performance** - Track engagement and completion rates

### 🔐 Authentication & Security
- **Clerk Integration** - Secure user authentication
- **User Management** - Sign up, sign in, profile management
- **Protected Routes** - Form ownership verification
- **Data Encryption** - Secure storage with Prisma and PostgreSQL
- **UUID System** - Prevent form enumeration attacks

### 💳 Subscription & Payments
- **Stripe Integration** - Secure payment processing
- **Multiple Plans** - Free, Pro, and Enterprise tiers
- **Usage Limits** - Form limits based on subscription
- **Upgrade Flow** - Seamless subscription management

### 🎯 Form Sharing
- **Unique URLs** - Each form gets a UUID-based public URL
- **Social Sharing** - Share via WhatsApp, Email, LinkedIn, Twitter
- **QR Codes** - Generate QR codes for offline sharing
- **Embed Options** - Embed forms on your website
- **Copy Link** - One-click link copying

### 🌓 Modern UI/UX
- **Dark Mode** - Full dark mode support
- **Responsive Design** - Perfect on mobile, tablet, and desktop
- **Gradient Themes** - Beautiful green/blue color scheme
- **Smooth Animations** - Polished transitions and hover effects
- **Toast Notifications** - Real-time feedback for user actions

---

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Frontend
- **Framework** - Next.js 15.1.4 with App Router
- **Language** - TypeScript 5.0
- **Styling** - Tailwind CSS 3.4
- **UI Components** - Shadcn/UI
- **Icons** - Lucide React
- **Rich Text** - React Quill (React 19 compatible)

### Backend
- **Runtime** - Node.js
- **Database** - PostgreSQL (Supabase)
- **ORM** - Prisma
- **Authentication** - Clerk
- **Payments** - Stripe
- **AI** - Google Gemini API, Hugging Face Models 

### DevOps & Tools
- **Hosting** - Vercel
- **Version Control** - Git & GitHub
- **Package Manager** - npm
- **Build Tool** - Turbopack
- **Code Quality** - ESLint

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
```bash
Node.js 18.x or higher
npm or yarn
PostgreSQL database
```

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm.git
cd GenForm
```

2. **Install dependencies**
```bash
npm install
```

3. **Set up environment variables**
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Add your credentials:
```env
# Database
DATABASE_URL="your_postgresql_url"
DIRECT_URL =

# Clerk Authentication
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY="your_clerk_publishable_key"
CLERK_SECRET_KEY="your_clerk_secret_key"

NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL="Your_link"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL="Your_link"


NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_IN_URL="Your_link"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_UP_URL="Your_link"

# Stripe
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY="your_stripe_publishable_key"
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY="your_stripe_secret_key"

# Google Gemini AI
GEMINI_API_KEY="your_gemini_api_key"

NEXT_PUBLIC_BASE_URL = "Link"
```

4. **Run database migrations**
```bash
npx prisma migrate dev
npx prisma generate
```

5. **Start development server**
```bash
npm run dev
```

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) 🎉

---

## 📖 Usage Guide

### Creating Your First Form

1. **Sign Up/Sign In** - Create an account or log in
2. **Navigate to Dashboard** - Click "Create Form" or go to Dashboard
3. **Describe Your Form** - Enter a prompt like:
   ```
   Create a customer feedback form with name, email, 
   rating (1-5), and comments
   ```
4. **AI Generates Form** - Watch as AI creates your form instantly
5. **Customize** - Edit fields, add descriptions, adjust settings
6. **Publish** - Click "Publish" to make your form live
7. **Share** - Copy the link or share via social media

### Managing Forms

- **Edit Forms** - Click edit icon on any form
- **View Submissions** - Click on form card to see responses
- **Delete Forms** - Remove unwanted forms
- **Analytics** - Track form performance in Analytics tab

---

## 🎨 Features Showcase

### AI Form Generation
```
User Input: "Create a job application form"

AI Output:
✓ Full Name (Text, Required)
✓ Email Address (Email, Required)
✓ Phone Number (Text, Required)
✓ Resume Upload (File, Required)
✓ Cover Letter (Textarea, Optional)
✓ Expected Salary (Number, Optional)
```

### Rich Text Descriptions
- Add formatted instructions to your forms
- Include links to privacy policies
- Create professional-looking form headers
- Format text with lists and emphasis

### Real-Time Analytics
- Track total submissions
- Monitor submission trends
- View individual responses
- Export data to CSV

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how you can help:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature
   ```
3. **Commit your changes**
   ```bash
   git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'
   ```
4. **Push to the branch**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/AmazingFeature
   ```
5. **Open a Pull Request**

### 🌟 Don't forget to star this repo!

---

## 📸 Screenshots

![GenForm Dashboard](https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm/blob/master/public/Screenshot%202025-06-17%20154052.png)

---

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Aman Singh**

- GitHub: [@Amansingh0807](https://github.com/Amansingh0807)
- LinkedIn: [amansingh08](https://linkedin.com/in/amansingh08)
- Twitter: [@KuwarDevv](https://twitter.com/KuwarDevv)
- Email: amansingh080704@gmail.com

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - The React Framework
- [Clerk](https://clerk.dev/) - Authentication
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com/) - Payment Processing
- [Google Gemini](https://ai.google.dev/) - AI Form Generation
- [Shadcn/UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/) - UI Components
- [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) - Hosting Platform

---

## 📞 Support

Need help? We're here for you!

- 📧 Email: amansingh080704@gmail.com
- 💬 GitHub Issues: [Create an issue](https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm/issues)
- 💼 LinkedIn: [Connect with me](https://linkedin.com/in/amansingh08)

---

<div align="center">

### ⭐ Star this repository if you find it helpful!

**Made with ❤️ by Aman Singh**

[🚀 Try GenForm Now](https://genformai-kappa.vercel.app/)

</div>

Commit message:

addition of the contributing guide, security, other config files

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 🚀 GenForm - AI-Powered Form Builder

### Transform Ideas into Beautiful Forms in Seconds

[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/demo-live-green.svg)](https://genformai-kappa.vercel.app/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-15.1.4-black)](https://nextjs.org/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-blue)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

[Live Demo](https://genformai-kappa.vercel.app/) • [Report Bug](https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm/issues) • [Request Feature](https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm/issues)

</div>

---

## 🌟 Overview

**GenForm** is a cutting-edge SaaS platform that leverages AI to revolutionize form creation. Simply describe your form in plain English, and our AI instantly generates a fully functional, customizable form. No coding required, no complex setup—just intelligent form building at your fingertips.

### ✨ Why GenForm?

- ⚡ **Lightning Fast** - Create forms in seconds, not hours
- 🤖 **AI-Powered** - Intelligent field suggestions and form generation
- 🎨 **Beautiful Design** - Modern, responsive forms that work everywhere
- 📊 **Analytics Built-in** - Track submissions and gain insights
- 🔒 **Secure** - Enterprise-grade security with encrypted data
- 💰 **Flexible Pricing** - Free tier available, scale as you grow

---

## 🎯 Key Features

### 🤖 AI Form Generation
- **Natural Language Processing** - Describe your form in plain English
- **Smart Field Detection** - AI automatically suggests appropriate field types
- **Instant Creation** - Generate complete forms in under 5 seconds
- **Context Understanding** - AI understands your form's purpose and adapts accordingly

### ✏️ Rich Text Editing
- **WYSIWYG Editor** - Format form descriptions with bold, italic, underline
- **List Support** - Add ordered and unordered lists
- **Link Integration** - Include hyperlinks in descriptions
- **Google Forms-like Experience** - Familiar and intuitive interface

### 🎨 Form Customization
- **Inline Title Editing** - Edit form names directly from dashboard or edit page
- **Field Management** - Add, remove, reorder, and customize fields
- **Field Types** - Text, email, number, select, radio, checkbox, and more
- **Required/Optional** - Mark fields as required or optional
- **Placeholders** - Add helpful placeholder text for better UX

### 📊 Analytics Dashboard
- **Submission Tracking** - Monitor form responses in real-time
- **Visual Charts** - Beautiful graphs and statistics
- **Submission Details** - View individual responses with timestamps
- **Export Data** - Download submissions for further analysis
- **Form Performance** - Track engagement and completion rates

### 🔐 Authentication & Security
- **Clerk Integration** - Secure user authentication
- **User Management** - Sign up, sign in, profile management
- **Protected Routes** - Form ownership verification
- **Data Encryption** - Secure storage with Prisma and PostgreSQL
- **UUID System** - Prevent form enumeration attacks

### 💳 Subscription & Payments
- **Stripe Integration** - Secure payment processing
- **Multiple Plans** - Free, Pro, and Enterprise tiers
- **Usage Limits** - Form limits based on subscription
- **Upgrade Flow** - Seamless subscription management

### 🎯 Form Sharing
- **Unique URLs** - Each form gets a UUID-based public URL
- **Social Sharing** - Share via WhatsApp, Email, LinkedIn, Twitter
- **QR Codes** - Generate QR codes for offline sharing
- **Embed Options** - Embed forms on your website
- **Copy Link** - One-click link copying

### 🌓 Modern UI/UX
- **Dark Mode** - Full dark mode support
- **Responsive Design** - Perfect on mobile, tablet, and desktop
- **Gradient Themes** - Beautiful green/blue color scheme
- **Smooth Animations** - Polished transitions and hover effects
- **Toast Notifications** - Real-time feedback for user actions

---

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Frontend
- **Framework** - Next.js 15.1.4 with App Router
- **Language** - TypeScript 5.0
- **Styling** - Tailwind CSS 3.4
- **UI Components** - Shadcn/UI
- **Icons** - Lucide React
- **Rich Text** - React Quill (React 19 compatible)

### Backend
- **Runtime** - Node.js
- **Database** - PostgreSQL (Supabase)
- **ORM** - Prisma
- **Authentication** - Clerk
- **Payments** - Stripe
- **AI** - Google Gemini API, Hugging Face Models 

### DevOps & Tools
- **Hosting** - Vercel
- **Version Control** - Git & GitHub
- **Package Manager** - npm
- **Build Tool** - Turbopack
- **Code Quality** - ESLint

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
```bash
Node.js 18.x or higher
npm
PostgreSQL database
```

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm.git
cd GenForm
```

2. **Install dependencies**
```bash
npm install
```

3. **Set up environment variables**
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Add your credentials:
```env
# Database
DATABASE_URL="your_postgresql_url"
DIRECT_URL =

# Clerk Authentication
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY="your_clerk_publishable_key"
CLERK_SECRET_KEY="your_clerk_secret_key"

NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL="Your_link"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL="Your_link"


NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_IN_URL="Your_link"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_UP_URL="Your_link"

# Stripe
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY="your_stripe_publishable_key"
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY="your_stripe_secret_key"

# Google Gemini AI
GEMINI_API_KEY="your_gemini_api_key"

NEXT_PUBLIC_BASE_URL = "Link"
```

4. **Run database migrations**
```bash
npx prisma migrate dev
npx prisma generate
```

5. **Start development server**
```bash
npm run dev
```

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) 🎉

---

## 📖 Usage Guide

### Creating Your First Form

1. **Sign Up/Sign In** - Create an account or log in
2. **Navigate to Dashboard** - Click "Create Form" or go to Dashboard
3. **Describe Your Form** - Enter a prompt like:
   ```
   Create a customer feedback form with name, email, 
   rating (1-5), and comments
   ```
4. **AI Generates Form** - Watch as AI creates your form instantly
5. **Customize** - Edit fields, add descriptions, adjust settings
6. **Publish** - Click "Publish" to make your form live
7. **Share** - Copy the link or share via social media

### Managing Forms

- **Edit Forms** - Click edit icon on any form
- **View Submissions** - Click on form card to see responses
- **Delete Forms** - Remove unwanted forms
- **Analytics** - Track form performance in Analytics tab

---

## 🎨 Features Showcase

### AI Form Generation
```
User Input: "Create a job application form"

AI Output:
✓ Full Name (Text, Required)
✓ Email Address (Email, Required)
✓ Phone Number (Text, Required)
✓ Resume Upload (File, Required)
✓ Cover Letter (Textarea, Optional)
✓ Expected Salary (Number, Optional)
```

### Rich Text Descriptions
- Add formatted instructions to your forms
- Include links to privacy policies
- Create professional-looking form headers
- Format text with lists and emphasis

### Real-Time Analytics
- Track total submissions
- Monitor submission trends
- View individual responses
- Export data to CSV

### 🌟 Don't forget to star this repo!

---

## 📸 Screenshots

![GenForm Dashboard](https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm/blob/master/public/Screenshot%202025-06-17%20154052.png)

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

Please read our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before getting started.

## 🛡️ Security

If you discover any security-related issues, please refer to our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md).

---

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Aman Singh**

- GitHub: [@Amansingh0807](https://github.com/Amansingh0807)
- LinkedIn: [amansingh08](https://linkedin.com/in/amansingh08)
- Twitter: [@KuwarDevv](https://twitter.com/KuwarDevv)
- Email: amansingh080704@gmail.com

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - The React Framework
- [Clerk](https://clerk.dev/) - Authentication
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com/) - Payment Processing
- [Google Gemini](https://ai.google.dev/) - AI Form Generation
- [Shadcn/UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/) - UI Components
- [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) - Hosting Platform

---

## 📞 Support

Need help? We're here for you!

- 📧 Email: amansingh080704@gmail.com
- 💬 GitHub Issues: [Create an issue](https://github.com/Amansingh0807/GenForm/issues)
- 💼 LinkedIn: [Connect with me](https://linkedin.com/in/amansingh08)

---

<div align="center">

### ⭐ Star this repository if you find it helpful!

**Made with ❤️ by Aman Singh**

[🚀 Try GenForm Now](https://genformai-kappa.vercel.app/)

</div>
